[Docs] Project Structure (#4829)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/01-project-structure.md

---
title: Project Structure
---

The basic structure of a SvelteKit project is:

```sh
my-app/
 |

>  +---- .svelte-kit/                 # (generated at dev)

Reviewer: this happens during both dev and build
```suggestion
 +---- .svelte-kit/                 # (generated by SvelteKit)
```

 +---- build/                       # (generated at build)
 +---- src/
 |       |
 |       +---- lib/                 # (optional)
 |       +---- params/              # (optional)
 |       +---- routes/
 |       +---- app.css              # (optional)
 |       +---- app.d.ts             # (optional)
 |       +---- app.html
 |       +---- hooks.js             # or 'hooks/' (optional)
 |       +---- service-worker.js    # (optional)
 +---- static/
 +---- tests/                       # (optional)

>  +---- .eslintrtc.cjs               # (optional)

Reviewer: this may change from `.cjs` to `.js`: https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/5263

Author: it seems ESM for eslint doesn't work.

 +---- .gitignore                   # (optional)
 +---- .npmrc
 +---- .prettierrc                  # (optional)
 +---- jsconfig.json                # or 'tsconfig.json' (optional)
 +---- package.json
 +---- playwright.config.js         # (optional)
 +---- svelte.config.js
```

If using TypeScript, the scripts files in the `src/` directory will have a `.ts` file extension.

### package.json

The `package.json` file is a standard file where you can configure your `dependencies` and `devDependencies`. [Read more in the npm docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json).

> SvelteKit is ESM-first so we set `"type": "module"`. In the `"scripts"` property, you can see scripts used for building the project, running the dev server, packaging a library (optional), and running other tools for linting, formatting, type checking, testing etc.

Reviewer 2: Nice job on the documentation!

> SvelteKit is ESM-first so we set `"type": "module"`. In the `"scripts"` property, you can see scripts used for building the project, running the dev server, packaging a library (optional), and running other tools for linting, formatting, type checking, testing etc.

Author: Could this link be fine <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules>?

> SvelteKit is ESM-first so we set `"type": "module"`. In the `"scripts"` property, you can see scripts used for building the project, running the dev server, packaging a library (optional), and running other tools for linting, formatting, type checking, testing etc.

Reviewer 2: yes!

### svelte.config.js

Contains [configuration](configuration) for the SvelteKit project.

### static/

Holds your static assets. These are files that are not processed by Vite but are just copied to the build folder by the adapter when building the application.

### src/

Holds the Svelte, JS/TS, and other source files for your app.

> #### src/app.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### app.html
```

This is the entry point to your application. It contains placeholders like `%svelte.head%`, `%svelte.body%`, and `%svelte.assets%`. These placeholders will be removed and replaced by actual content at build or SSR.

`%svelte.head%` is replaced with `<link>` and `<script>` tags that power the application as well as content from the [`<svelte:head>`](https://svelte.dev/docs#template-syntax-svelte-head) tags defined in your layouts and pages.

`%svelte.body%` is where the HTML for your application is rendered.

`%svelte.assets%` is replaced by the [assets base path](configuration#paths).

> #### src/routes/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### routes/
```

> Contains your [pages](routing#pages), [endpoints](routing#endpoints), and [layouts](layouts) and can also hold private module files. SvelteKit use file-based routing, so the file path of the pages and endpoints in this folder map to the URL which renders them.

Reviewer 3: Reading through current documentation, I was wondering if we should also mention [Standalone endpoints](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/routing#endpoints-standalone-endpoints) because of their related `data/` folder.
Thoughts?

```suggestion
Contains your [pages](routing#pages), [endpoints](routing#endpoints), [standalone endpoints](routing#endpoints-standalone-endpoints), [layouts](layouts) and can also hold private module files. SvelteKit uses file-based routing, so the file path of the pages and endpoints in this folder maps to the URL which renders them.
```

BTW, there are some errors in the text:
- a superfluous "and" in "…,~and~ layouts and can also hold private module files."
- a wrong declination for the _use_ verb in "…SvelteKit use***s*** file-based routing,…:
- a wrong declination for the _map_ verb in "…map***s*** to the URL…"

They are all fixed in the proposed suggestion.

> #### src/lib/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### lib/
```

A folder that contains source for non-routing related files used by your application. They can be imported via the `$lib` alias. If you are creating a library, the contents of the `lib/` folder are used by default to generate the package when you run [`svelte-kit package`](packaging).

> #### src/hooks.js or src/hooks/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### hooks.js or hooks/
```

A folder or file that contain [hooks](hooks) functions executed at every request. The top scope of this file can be used for initialization code like a database connection.

> #### src/params/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### params/
```

Contains [param matchers](routing#advanced-routing-matching) that can be used for dynamic pages or endpoints.

> #### src/service-worker.js or src/service-worker/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### service-worker.js or service-worker/
```

Optionally contains code for your [service-worker](service-worker).

> #### other files in src/ folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### other files in src/ folder
```

---
title: Project Structure
---

Typicall structure of SvelteKit project is something like:

> ```sh

Author: Not sure what use so comments are shown as comments but everything else as standard text.

Reviewer 3: What about using the skeleton app structure, and speaking about option folders like `params` or generated folders like `.svelte-kit/` and `build/` when speaking about them in their parents' descriptions?

This is the output I've got using tree (`tree -aC --dirsfirst --gitignore` added `/` manually):

```sh
├── src/
│   ├── routes/
│   │   └── index.svelte
│   ├── app.d.ts
│   └── app.html
├── static/
│   └── favicon.png
├── tests/
│   └── test.js
├── .eslintrc.cjs
├── .gitignore
├── .npmrc
├── .prettierrc
├── README.md
├── jsconfig.json
├── package.json
├── playwright.config.js
└── svelte.config.js
```

Author: I think it's better if all of important files are included, so it's really fast visible to where put for example `params/` folder, that doesn't exist yet without need to search it deeper in docs.

Reviewer 3: I agree, that's a very important folder of which, BTW, I didn't know about. ☺️ 
But I would keep it super simple to avoid to overwhelm the reader with "advanced" information, still mentioning them in their related section in the documentation page.
In this case, the section where we explain what the `src/` folder is about. 
Makes sense?

Reviewer 3: Thinking about it, that's true. For sure, I've already learned something new looking at it. ☺️ 👍

 +---- static/
 +---- tests/                       # (optional)
 +---- .eslintrtc.cjs               # (optional)
 +---- .gitignore                   # (optional)
 +---- .npmrc
 +---- .prettierrc                  # (optional)
 +---- CHANGELOG.md                 # (optional)
 +---- jsconfig.json                # or 'tsconfig.json' (optional)
 +---- package.json
 +---- playwright.config.js         # (optional)
 +---- README.md                    # (optional)
 +---- svelte.config.js
```

note that in case of TypeScript scripts files in `src/` directory have `.ts` file extension.

### package.json

Same as in any `node.js` app, contain `name`, `version`, `scripts`, `devDependencies`, `type` and `dependencies` and other informations about your project.

Content depends on what options you used when initializing project. SvelteKit is ESM first so we use `"type": "module"` settings. In `"scripts"` property, we can see scripts used for building SvelteKit project, running dev server, packaging and to run other tools for linting, formating, type-checking, testing etc.

When you decide to install adapter, you should use `-D` option to install it as devDependency.

### svelte.config.js

> Contains [configuration](configuration) of SvelteKit project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains [configuration](configuration) for the SvelteKit project.
```

### static/

Is folder that holds your static assets. Those are files that are not processed by compiler but instead are copied as are to `build/` folder, that is generated by adapter when building application.

### src/

Holds all Svelte, JS and other files used to implement your app.

#### app.html

Is entry files, to which is Svelte app parsed. It contain some placeholders like `%svelte.head%`, `%svelte.body%` or `%svelte.assets%`. These placeholders will be removed and replaced by actual content at build or ssr.

> `%svelte.head%` is replaced mostly with `<link>` and `<script>` tags, that makes your application possible to work. But it's also used as place to which put content from your `<svelte:head>` tags defined in your layouts and pages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`%svelte.head%` is replaced with `<link>` and `<script>` tags that power the application as well as content from the [`<svelte:head>`](https://svelte.dev/docs#template-syntax-svelte-head) tags defined in your layouts and pages.
```

> `%svelte.body%` is where whole content (HTML) as well as self-hydratating JavaScript code is put.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`%svelte.body%` is where the HTML for your application is rendered.
```

> `%svelte.assets%` is replaced by actual base path to assets. This is typically empty string and often not needed, but if you choose to change `config.kit.paths` option in `svelte.config.js` for some reasons, it will help to correctly load assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`%svelte.assets%` is replaced by the [assets base path](configuration#paths).
```

> #### routes/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### src/routes/
```

> Is most important folder in your project. Those contain Pages and Endpoints as well as Layouts and private module files. SvelteKit use file-based routing, so Pages and Endpoints in this folder map to path of URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains your [pages](routing#pages), [endpoints](routing#endpoints), and [layouts](layouts) and can also hold private module files. SvelteKit use file-based routing, so the file path of the pages and endpoints in this folder map to the URL which renders them.
```

> #### lib/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### src/lib/
```

> Is folder that contain other files you use in app. Those files can be Components, Stores, util files, some data, or even server-side files (if they are not imported to any client-side file (like `.svelte` Page or Component file), they are not exposed to client-side). But if you are creating package, whole content of `lib/` folder is used to generate package, if it's not configured otherwise in `svelte.config.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A folder that contains source for non-routing related files used by your application. They can be imported via the `$lib` alias. If you are creating a library, the contents of the `lib/` folder are used by default to generate the package when you run [`svelte-kit package`](packaging).
```

> #### hooks.js or hooks/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### src/hooks.js or src/hooks/
```

Is folder or file that contain hooks. Those are functions executed at every request. Read more about them in [Hooks](hooks) section. Top scope of this file can be used for initialization code like database connection for example.

> #### params/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### src/params/
```

> Contain [param matchers](routing#advanced-routing-matching) that can be used for dynamic pages or endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contains [param matchers](routing#advanced-routing-matching) that can be used for dynamic pages or endpoints.
```

> #### service-worker.js or service-worker/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### src/service-worker.js or src/service-worker/
```

> Contain your code for [service-worker](service-workers). If is present, service-worker will be automatically registered by SvelteKit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally contains code for your [service-worker](service-worker).
```

#### other files in src/ folder.

`src/` folder can contain also `app.css` files that contain global styles, or `app.d.ts` (if you use type-checking) used by TypeScript that contains type definitions in `App` namespace.

### build/

Is folder generated at build, that contain your compiled app prepared for deploying to production. In case You use adapter-node, you can execute it with `node build` command.

### .svelte-kit/

> Folder used when `npm run dev` command is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Holds Vite output used directly when you run `npm run dev` or as intermediate output of `npm run build`.
```

> ### README.md
> 
> Contain some informations about how to create, develop and build or deploy your app.
> 

Reviewer: this is obvious enough I don't think we need to document it
```suggestion
```

### other optional files and tests folder in root directory

> based on options you selected when initializing project, there are generated bunch of other files used for tools like Git, ESLint, Prettier, TypeScript, or PlayWright.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on options you selected when initializing the project, there other files will be generated for tools like Git, ESLint, Prettier, TypeScript, and PlayWright.
```

 +---- .svelte-kit/                 # (generated at dev)
 +---- build/                       # (generated at build)
 +---- src/
 |       |
 |       +---- lib/                 # (optional)
 |       +---- params/              # (optional)
 |       +---- routes/
 |       +---- app.css              # (optional)
 |       +---- app.d.ts             # (optional)
 |       +---- app.html
 |       +---- hooks.js             # or 'hooks/' (optional)
 |       +---- service-worker.js    # (optional)
 +---- static/
 +---- tests/                       # (optional)
 +---- .eslintrtc.cjs               # (optional)
 +---- .gitignore                   # (optional)
 +---- .npmrc
 +---- .prettierrc                  # (optional)
 +---- jsconfig.json                # or 'tsconfig.json' (optional)
 +---- package.json
 +---- playwright.config.js         # (optional)
 +---- svelte.config.js
```

If using TypeScript, the scripts files in the `src/` directory will have a `.ts` file extension.

### package.json

The `package.json` file is a standard file where you can configure your `dependencies` and `devDependencies`. [Read more in the npm docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json).

> SvelteKit is ESM-first so we use `"type": "module"` settings. In the `"scripts"` property, you can see scripts used for building the project, running the dev server, packaging a library (optional), and running other tools for linting, formatting, type checking, testing etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SvelteKit is ESM-first so we set `"type": "module"`. In the `"scripts"` property, you can see scripts used for building the project, running the dev server, packaging a library (optional), and running other tools for linting, formatting, type checking, testing etc.
```

### svelte.config.js

Contains [configuration](configuration) for the SvelteKit project.

### static/

Holds your static assets. These are files that are not processed by Vite but are just copied to the build folder by the adapter when building the application.

### src/

Holds the Svelte, JS/TS, and other source files for your app.

#### app.html

> This is the entry point to your application. It contain placeholders like `%svelte.head%`, `%svelte.body%`, and `%svelte.assets%`. These placeholders will be removed and replaced by actual content at build or SSR.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the entry point to your application. It contains placeholders like `%svelte.head%`, `%svelte.body%`, and `%svelte.assets%`. These placeholders will be removed and replaced by actual content at build or SSR.
```

> `%svelte.head%` is replaced with `<link>` and `<script>` tags that power the application as well as content from the `<svelte:head>` tags defined in your layouts and pages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`%svelte.head%` is replaced with `<link>` and `<script>` tags that power the application as well as content from the [`<svelte:head>`](https://svelte.dev/docs#template-syntax-svelte-head) tags defined in your layouts and pages.
```
